In past educational institutions, children have been taught together based on age
regardless of intellectual ability displayed at school. Alternatively, a large proportion of the
population believes there should be a strong move towards the separation of children of
different intellectual capabilities in current educational institutions. From my own
educational perspective, I honestly believe that younger students possessing higher
intelligence levels than their peers ought to be separated into alternative levels based on
their gift, for a number of reasons.
Admittedly, although young learners have the chance to learn a lot from associating with
classmates their own age, it is widely believed that such a process isn’t considered to be
vital for a healthy educational upbringing. The argument for intellectual separation holds
some strong advantages. Firstly, by allocating students to classes based on levels of
intelligence, high achievers have the opportunity to excel in a way that they couldn’t in a
normal class. Owing to the fact that they can be placed into an unrestricted educational
environment, students can excel with intellectual freedom.
Secondly, there is a strong argument in regards to inhibiting a child’s intellectual growth
by restricting them from moving above their peers if their mental capability permits. Why
should we limit the intelligence of our future generation? For instance, many of today’s
highly successful artists and entrepreneurs in the world have come from an unrestricted
educational background and have been allowed to explore their mind and careers to the
fullest extent.
In conclusion, although I believe an educational environment for young learners should
promote equal opportunity, I honestly think that creating a more liberal environment which
enhances the learning capabilities of intellectually-gifted children will not only benefit
individual’s careers but future society as a whole.